How to Make Ad Hoc Proof Automation Less Ad Hoc.

Most interactive theorem provers provide support for some form of
user-customizable proof automation. In a number of popular systems,
such as Coq and Isabelle, this automation is achieved primarily
through *tactics*, which are programmed in a separate language
from that of the prover's base logic. While tactics are clearly
useful in practice, they can be difficult to maintain and compose
because, unlike lemmas, their behavior cannot be specified within the
expressive type system of the prover itself.

We propose a novel approach to proof automation in Coq that allows the
user to specify the behavior of custom automated routines in terms of
Coq's own type system. Our approach involves a sophisticated
application of Coq's *canonical structures*, which generalize Haskell
type classes and facilitate a flexible style of dependently-typed
logic programming. Specifically, just as Haskell type classes are
used to infer the canonical implementation of an overloaded term at a
given type, canonical structures can be used to infer the canonical
*proof* of an overloaded *lemma* for a given instantiation of its
parameters. We present a series of design patterns for canonical
structure programming that enable one to carefully and predictably
coax Coq's type inference engine into triggering the execution of
user-supplied algorithms during unification, and we illustrate these
patterns through several realistic examples drawn from Hoare Type
Theory. We assume no prior knowledge of Coq and describe the relevant
aspects of Coq type inference from first principles.
